This could be understood and
and misunderstood in many different ways.
For many of you who are here,
for almost
all the Isha meditators around the world,
whatever is happening with them
in terms of energy…
First of all you need to
make a distinction between
talking spirituality
and actually making something happen
with your life process.
There is a psychological process,
there is an existential process.
Now, I can open the Bhagavad Gita or
The Bible or some other book
and read it to you
and explain meanings to you,
tell stories to you
which can set off a whole range of
psychological process.
It can… At the most, if at all,
if you can call it that,
at the most it is preparatory in nature.
By itself there is nothing spiritual about
listening to a
discourse or a book or reading a book
or writing a book or anything.
It is purely a psychological process.
You have not set off any spiritual process
because spirituality is purely existential.
Psychological process is what you do in your head.
You can do whatever you want in your head
and it need not have anything to do with reality.
You can sit here
and think whatever you want.
It need not have anything to do
with the existing reality as such.
Spiritual process is purely existential.
What you think,
your belief systems, your ideologies,
your philosophies,
your opinions have no place on the spiritual path.
So,
we
used Isha Yoga
as an effective tool
to level people's mind.
It rolls you down pretty well, hmm?
And in that moment of
little bit of openness in the psychological process
we did touch your spine.
So,
whatever is happening around us
in the form of programs,
in the form of whatever else
is not because of the teaching,
please see this.
What we are teaching
and what is happening to people
actually is very contradictory.
We are talking about yoga.
We are talking about
peace,
inclusion
or we are talking about Shoonya, emptiness
but what's happening is a scream.
very contradictory.
Because the talk,
the Isha Yoga program and its content
is only a device
to level out
the resistance that is there
in the psychological process.
To make you feel like a fool
so that
you don't attach yourself to your ideas
and values and
whatever nonsense you believe in.
The moment you do not identify yourself with that,
there is an opening.
The moment that openness happens
your spinal thread will not be spared,
have no hope about that.
It will not be spared.
It will immediately be touched.
Whether you let it glow
or you resist
and create more heat than light is up to you.
If you know electrical devices,
the more resistance there is in a wire
through which electricity is passing,
more heat is generated, less light.
Less resistance,
then less heat and more light.
That's up to you.
That's in your hands.
It's been touched,
the power is on.
If you resist
you create more heat and less light.
If you don't resist
you will create lot of light and very little heat.
So,
if you want to cultivate this further
that your glow is not just for your transformation,
you want it
so that we can get rid of the light bulbs
and save on power
and do something ecologically good also.
If you want to go that far,
then yes you have to pay lot of attention to it,
lot of attention.
If you want to become an alternative source
of energy on this planet
you have to pay lot of attention to it.
A lot means lot.
But you cannot pay a lot of attention
lot of attention to anything
because you can only pay
what you have.
But in that also you are saving,
that's not okay.
Everything that you have you pay,
that's still not enough because
that's not all what you have.
There is more
but that's still
redundant, it's not it.
it is still
in an un-manifest state.
It is still in a state where
you don't have access to it.
I am just talking even about
your mental attention.
All of your mental attention
is not there right now, please see.
At different times of your life in the day,
at different times of the day
you are at different levels of attention, isn't it?
If you are doing your work
you are in one level of attention,
if you are doing in meditation
you are in different level of attention,
you are eating something that you like very much
you are in a different level of attention,
you are watching
a video something that you like
you are in a different level of attention.
Now, you are in a
different level of attention.
So, your levels of attention
you yourself know it's different
and whatever the peak attention
that you have had in your life at any time,
whatever that was,
that is still not all of it.
That is just a small part of it.
You are capable of much more attention,
much much more.
Suppose I put you in a place,
right now suppose I leave you
in the middle of Velliangiri Mountains
where it's pitch dark
without a torch or anything,
if you hear wild animals and anything and you
can't see anything,
now you will be in a different level of attention.
If it's question of life and death
now you will become attentive
in a completely different way.
A few years ago
when we were a small group of people here,
I took them on a trek,
on a railway track
between Subramanya and Mangalore
where
this 36-kilometer stretch
has over 300 bridges
and over 100 tunnels.
Practically you are either on a bridge or in a tunnel
most of the time,
and it's wonderful,
absolutely wonderful mountain.
Some of the tunnels are over a kilometer long.
If you go into it in the night,
even in the day it is pitch dark.
If you go into it it's absolutely dark means dark.
You can't see your hand like this.
After some time you don't know
whether your eyes are open or closed.
It's that dark.
Absolutely dark,
probably many of you have never been in a place
like that because wherever you are there is some light,
you know.
Even the star light something.
It's giving you some sense of vision.
Absolutely no vision,
pitch black
in front of you.
If you look like this you don't know
whether your hand is there or not.
Really after some time you start wondering
whether your eyes are closed or open because
it doesn't make any difference.
Even the slightest difference is not there.
So, I made them walk through these tunnels
without any torches or anything.
On the railway track it is, you know,
you don't know there could be a ditch,
there could be an opening,
there could be anything
and the bats are flying all over.
They don't see anything either
but they are damn sure where they are going,
you know?
They are just flying really close to you
all over the place.
Initially people were so terrified
but after some time slowly they started walking,
walking and enjoying the whole experience.
If you are in a place like that
your attention becomes
really heightened.
If you can keep your attention
like this every moment of your life
then you will glow,
really glow.
Why
I am always constantly,
especially with the brahmacharis
I am
constantly pushing them to notice little,
little things in the ashram
is because
not just about cleanliness,
not just about the aesthetics of the place,
just to be attentive,
to be absolutely attentive
to every little thing.
If a pebble has turned over,
you must notice it,
you know.
Yesterday the pebble was like this,
today if it is like this,
you must notice it.
It is not the question of the pebble,
how the pebble is.
It is just that you are attentive.
If you bring this attention to a peak,
then
whatever your spinal thread that has been touched,
it will really glow.
It's been touched.
No question about that.
You have to make it glow,
you have to pay attention.
If you learn to
have a heightened sense of attention,
then we can teach you methods
as to what you must attend to
and what you should not within you.
Right now, just we are still working on people
to get them to a certain level of attention.
If you become very attentive we can look at
how to make use of that attentiveness.
It is...
Only when you truly pay attention
to your life first of all,
you understand
how limited
and how baseless life is.
That's the first step towards spirituality
happens only because you paid attention
to your life
and you saw
you don't know where it begins,
you don't know where it ends.
You are going about as if
whatever you are doing
is a be all and end all of life.
The moment you pay a little attention
you understand, This is not it.
So, the very first step of even
thinking spiritual came to you
only because of a certain level of attention.
If you pay much more attention to everything,
above all if you heighten your ability
to be attentive,
that could be used in miraculous ways,
miraculous ways.
It could really create an alternative source of energy.
Yes...